GD5999 Dissertation

The dissertation will showcase your ability to present a substantial piece of academically rigorous research.

The dissertation is assessed by means of:

a) a 10-minute video presentation (10% of module grade)

b) a 15,000 word dissertation (90% of module grade)

GD5999 Guidelines:
The presentation will give you an opportunity to receive feedback from your supervisor on your plan for the project. It is important to present the research question and the research context in a way that would be accessible to non-specialists. Make sure you highlight what you think will be your main contribution to the current debate on the topic you deal with. You’ve got to “sell” your project to your audience, make them care for your ideas, and motivate your own interest in the topic and in the choice of format (i.e., a dissertation rather than the multi-media format or the policy report format).

You must upload to MMS by 29 May a 10-minute video presentation. For more details, see the Presentation Guidelines section below.

As for the dissertation proper, before you make a start you may want to consult Kate Williams’ Planning Your Dissertation, a tried-and-tested resource that has served the scholarly community rather well. You’ll find everything you need to know about how to write a dissertation in there. (select “Microsoft 365” on the right-hand side of the login page under “sign in below” to access).  If you have still got questions, do feel free to speak to the  module coordinator, or to your supervisor.

You may also find it helpful to have a look at our marking grid to get a sense of what markers will be looking for as they read your dissertation.

There are some rules of thumb you might keep in mind as you write up your dissertation.

Make it self-contained (a non-specialist should be able to pick up the topic and the debate within a couple of pages. That means, you should define key terms, succinctly sketch any background information needed to make sense of what you’re saying, and give appropriate references to point the reader to further resources);
Write as clearly as you can (i.e., keep jargon to a minimum, have the reader in mind at all times, as someone you need to inform, but without patronising them);
Organise your dissertation as a seamless reasoning chain (i.e., provide clear links between sentences, paragraphs, and sections, ideally by starting a new section where the previous one left off, and likewise for paragraphs and sentences);
Clearly set out the theoretical framework within which you operate, and how it relates to the case studies, if any, and the examples you discuss in the course of your dissertation;
Clearly state your research methodology and why you adopted it;
Make sure you include a critical discussion of your main claims (i.e., don’t allow your discussion to remain too one-sided, raise objections against your preferred view, and be fair to the views you oppose or criticise);
Provide support for your claims (i.e., whenever you make a major claim, give reasons for it, either empirical or conceptual);
Don’t forget to briefly summarise each section before proceeding, so as to help the reader place the section within the larger picture. Provide a summary at the end of the dissertation, to remind the reader of the exciting journey just concluded.
There is no need for an abstract, but if you want to include it, by all means do so. Even if you include the abstract, you should make sure the beginning of the dissertation includes a succinct, abstract-like summary of the work. If the abstract duplicates the opening section of the dissertation, then it can be excluded from the word count. Everything else, apart from coversheet and bibliography, will instead count towards the word count.